backend/docs/Configuration.md, before:

# Configuration

## Basic settings

| Env Variable   | Required            | Default | Description                                                              |
|----------------|---------------------|---------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| BASE_URL       | Yes                 | None    | Required for OpenID Connect or assistants using Dall-E image generation. |
| DB_URL         | Yes                 | None    |                                                                          |
| SESSION_SECRET | NODE_ENV=production | None    |                                                                          |
| NODE_ENV       | No                  | None    |                                                                          |
| EXTENSIONS     | No                  | None    | ","-separated list of enabled extensions, when empty all enabled         |
| PORT           | No                  | 3000    |                                                                          |


## Logging (LLM)

| Env Variable   | Required | Default | Description |
|----------------|----------|---------|-------------|
| LOG_RAG_CHUNKS | No       | None    | boolean     |
| LOG_LLM_AGENT  | No       | None    | boolean     |

## Metrics

| Env Variable             | Required  | Default | Description |
|--------------------------|-----------|---------|-------------|
| METRICS_PORT             | No        | 9100    |             |

## Authentication

### Local

| Env Variable                     | Required | Default       | Description                             |
|----------------------------------|----------|---------------|-----------------------------------------|
| AUTH_ENABLE_PASSWORD             | No       | None          | boolean                                 |
| AUTH_TRUST_PROXY                 | No       | None          | boolean                                 |  
| AUTH_TRUST_COOKIE                | No       | _oauth2_proxy | used only when AUTH_TRUST_PROXY = true  |
| AUTH_INITIAL_ADMIN_USERNAME      | No       | None          |                                         |
| AUTH_INITIALUSER_APIKEY          | No       | None          |                                         |
| AUTH_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD      | No       | None          |                                         |
| AUTH_INITIAL_ADMIN_ROLE_REQUIRED | No       | false         | true, when initial user should be admin | 

### Github

| Env Variable             | Required  | Default | Description |
|--------------------------|-----------|---------|-------------|
| AUTH_GITHUB_CLIENTID     | No        | None    |             |
| AUTH_GITHUB_CLIENTSECRET | No        | None    |             |

### Google

| Env Variable             | Required  | Default   | Description |
|--------------------------|-----------|-----------|-------------|
| AUTH_GOOGLE_CLIENTID     | No        | None      |             |
| AUTH_GOOGLE_CLIENTSECRET | No        | None      |             |

### Microsoft

| Env Variable                | Required  | Default   | Description |
|-----------------------------|-----------|-----------|-------------|
| AUTH_MICROSOFT_CLIENTID     | No        | None      |             |
| AUTH_MICROSOFT_CLIENTSECRET | No        | None      |             |
| AUTH_MICROSOFT_TENANT       | No        | None      |             |


### OAuth

| Env Variable                 | Required  | Default   | Description |
|------------------------------|-----------|-----------|-------------|
| AUTH_OAUTH_AUTHORIZATION_URL | No        | None      |             |
| AUTH_OAUTH_BRAND_COLOR       | No        | None      |             |
| AUTH_OAUTH_BRAND_NAME        | No        | None      |             |
| AUTH_OAUTH_CLIENTID          | No        | None      |             |
| AUTH_OAUTH_CLIENTSECRET      | No        | None      |             |
| AUTH_OAUTH_TOKEN_URL         | No        | None      |             |
| AUTH_OAUTH_USER_INFO_URL     | No        | None      |             |


## Langfuse

| Env Variable        | Required  | Default                    | Description |
|---------------------|-----------|----------------------------|-------------|
| LANGFUSE_PUBLIC_KEY | No        | None                       |             |
| LANGFUSE_BASE_URL   | No        | https://cloud.langfuse.com |             |
| LANGFUSE_SECRET_KEY | No        | None                       |             |

Commit message:

feat(backend): disable metrics export when METRICS_PORT is set to 0 (#1056)
* feat(backend): disable metrics export when METRICS_PORT is not set

* feat(ci): update quality gate to ignore Cleanup artifacts

* feat(backend): disable exporter when METRICS_PORT set to 0

instead of disabling the Metric Exporter when it is not set, it is now only disabled
when the value is set to 0, to ensure backward compatibility when using the default port.
Update documentation and set METRICS_PORT to 0 in .env.example

backend/docs/Configuration.md, after:

# Configuration

## Basic settings

| Env Variable   | Required            | Default | Description                                                              |
|----------------|---------------------|---------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| BASE_URL       | Yes                 | None    | Required for OpenID Connect or assistants using Dall-E image generation. |
| DB_URL         | Yes                 | None    |                                                                          |
| SESSION_SECRET | NODE_ENV=production | None    |                                                                          |
| NODE_ENV       | No                  | None    |                                                                          |
| EXTENSIONS     | No                  | None    | ","-separated list of enabled extensions, when empty all enabled         |
| PORT           | No                  | 3000    |                                                                          |


## Logging (LLM)

| Env Variable   | Required | Default | Description |
|----------------|----------|---------|-------------|
| LOG_RAG_CHUNKS | No       | None    | boolean     |
| LOG_LLM_AGENT  | No       | None    | boolean     |

## Metrics

| Env Variable             | Required  | Default | Description                     |
|--------------------------|-----------|---------|---------------------------------|
| METRICS_PORT             | No        | 9100    | Can be disabled by setting to 0 |

## Authentication

### Local

| Env Variable                     | Required | Default       | Description                             |
|----------------------------------|----------|---------------|-----------------------------------------|
| AUTH_ENABLE_PASSWORD             | No       | None          | boolean                                 |
| AUTH_TRUST_PROXY                 | No       | None          | boolean                                 |  
| AUTH_TRUST_COOKIE                | No       | _oauth2_proxy | used only when AUTH_TRUST_PROXY = true  |
| AUTH_INITIAL_ADMIN_USERNAME      | No       | None          |                                         |
| AUTH_INITIALUSER_APIKEY          | No       | None          |                                         |
| AUTH_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD      | No       | None          |                                         |
| AUTH_INITIAL_ADMIN_ROLE_REQUIRED | No       | false         | true, when initial user should be admin | 

### Github

| Env Variable             | Required  | Default | Description |
|--------------------------|-----------|---------|-------------|
| AUTH_GITHUB_CLIENTID     | No        | None    |             |
| AUTH_GITHUB_CLIENTSECRET | No        | None    |             |

### Google

| Env Variable             | Required  | Default   | Description |
|--------------------------|-----------|-----------|-------------|
| AUTH_GOOGLE_CLIENTID     | No        | None      |             |
| AUTH_GOOGLE_CLIENTSECRET | No        | None      |             |

### Microsoft

| Env Variable                | Required  | Default   | Description |
|-----------------------------|-----------|-----------|-------------|
| AUTH_MICROSOFT_CLIENTID     | No        | None      |             |
| AUTH_MICROSOFT_CLIENTSECRET | No        | None      |             |
| AUTH_MICROSOFT_TENANT       | No        | None      |             |


### OAuth

| Env Variable                 | Required  | Default   | Description |
|------------------------------|-----------|-----------|-------------|
| AUTH_OAUTH_AUTHORIZATION_URL | No        | None      |             |
| AUTH_OAUTH_BRAND_COLOR       | No        | None      |             |
| AUTH_OAUTH_BRAND_NAME        | No        | None      |             |
| AUTH_OAUTH_CLIENTID          | No        | None      |             |
| AUTH_OAUTH_CLIENTSECRET      | No        | None      |             |
| AUTH_OAUTH_TOKEN_URL         | No        | None      |             |
| AUTH_OAUTH_USER_INFO_URL     | No        | None      |             |


## Langfuse

| Env Variable        | Required  | Default                    | Description |
|---------------------|-----------|----------------------------|-------------|
| LANGFUSE_PUBLIC_KEY | No        | None                       |             |
| LANGFUSE_BASE_URL   | No        | https://cloud.langfuse.com |             |
| LANGFUSE_SECRET_KEY | No        | None                       |             |
